In general, this process of taking the outputs of one function to be the inputs of another is known as function composition, and should also be familiar from middle school math. In more complex programs, you can compose an unlimited number of functions (in what’s known as a *pipeline*) and do some crazy stuff with that.

You know what’s also crazy? Taking in functions as arguments.

What? Functions as arguments of other functions?

Yes.

Turns out that in JavaScript, Python, and other functional programming languages, functions are *first class data types*, just like integers and characters. Functions that take in other functions as arguments are known as *higher order functions.* Here’s a common example from JavaScript: the `map` function:
  
```javascript
let arr1 = [1, 2, 3];
let arr2 = l1.map(mult2);

// Expected output: [2; 4; 6]
```

You pass into map a one-argument function like `mult2` and that function is applied to every element in the array. The map function then outputs a new array as its results.

What if you don’t want to write out an entire function like `mult2` just to use it as an argument? That’s okay - you can write what’s known as an *anonymous function* (sometimes called a *lambda function*), where you can write a function with a body and arguments without having to name it. Here’s a rewrite of the above using anonymous function syntax in JS: 

```javascript
let arr1 = [1, 2, 3];
let arr2 = l1.map(z => z * 2);

// Expected output: [2; 4; 6]
```

Notice how instead of passing in the function name `mult2`, you write the function itself as an argument using JS’s arrow notation. The argument here is written to the left of the arrow; the stuff to the right of the arrow is the body of the function.
