# Lesson 4.0: Intro to Continuations

If you've been doing JavaScript for a while, you may have heard of continuations, continuation passing style, or something like that. And you may be wondering what the heck that is. Or if you have looked into it, you may have been intimidated by how confusing it is. But don't worry - we're here to break it down for you!

So, a _continuation_ is just the rest of the work. At any point in any program, you have a continuation, which is just the work that's left to be done after that point.

Remember this: "the continuation is the work that's left to do". Memorize this like you memorized "the mitochondria is the powerhouse of the cell."

Let's say we have the code below. Right now, the continuation is the whole program. We haven't done anything.

```javascript
(1 + 2) * (3 + 4)
```

You can view a continuation as a function. We're going to need some extra stuff to understand continuations as a function. `val` is the value of the work we have already done, which we pass in as the argument of a function. The body of our function is all the work we have; everything that is not `val` is the stuff we haven't done yet, aka. the continuation. Right now, the value of `val` is nothing because we have not done any work.

```javascript
function (val) {
    return (1 + 2) * (c + d);
}
```
Now, say we did the expression `(1 + 2)`. So now we have this:

```javascript
function(val) {
    return v * (3 + 4);
}
```

`(1 + 2)` is the expression we evaluated (to `3`, specifically) - that's the work we already did. That's the `val`.  `* (3 + 4)` is the continuation. It's all the work that's left to do.

What is the continuation of `(3 + 4)`? `(3 + 4)` evaluates to `7`, which then becomes our value for `val`.

```javascript
function(val) {
    return 3 * val;
}
```

Here, `3 *` is the work left to do. Note that since we've already evaluated `(1 + 2)` to `3`, it's `3` that's in the continuation, not `(1 + 2)`.
