# Lesson 4.1: The Continuation Monad Structure

Since this course is part of a monad tutorial, you're probably wondering: can we make a monad for continuations? 

Answer: Hell yes! Here it is:

```javascript
function ret(a) {
  return function(cont) {
    return cont(a);
  }
}

function bind(mon, func) {
  return function(cont) {
    return mon(val => func(val)(cont));
  }
}

function run(mon) {
  return mon(val => val);
}
```

_SAY WHAAAT???_

To understand what this is doing, imagine each operation works as a mini assembly line. The first worker does their part. Then, the pass on the results of what they did to the second worker, who then does their part, then passes on their result to the third worker and on and on and on and on and on. 

The other important thing to remember, is, unlike a normal program, where a function pops of the stack with the result and returns, you never return from a continuation. You don't need a stack. It never pops off. Once you pass a value to the continuation, there is only one way to go, which is down, deeper into the continuation.

In that sense, continuations are just like life. You can only do the rest of the work and you can never pop off the stack.

Let's first look at `ret`:
```javascript
function ret(a) {
  return function(cont) {
    return cont(a);
  }
}
```

Like any other `ret`, this `ret` takes in some random thing (the `a`) as an argument and wraps it as a monadic value. In this case, the monadic value is a function. That function takes a continuation as an argument, and returns the result `cont(a)`, aka. `a` applied to that continuation.

Yes, just like you can pass values to a continuation, like in the previous lesson, you can pass continuations as arguments into other functions. That's because continuations are represented as functions here. `a` is the work already done, so `cont(a)` just applies the work already done to the rest of the work.

Let's recall an example from the last lesson:

```javascript
let ourCont = function(v) {
  return v * (3 + 4);
}
```

In the last lesson, `v` had the value `3`. In our monad, that would be like:

```javascript
ret(3);
```

Where we wrap `3`, the work that we have already did. Then `ret` will return its function:

```javascript
function(cont) {
  cont(3);
}
```

If we pass `ourCont` to that function, then in the function body `ourCont` will get `3` as an argument. Then `ourCont` will evaluate `3` on `v * (3 + 4)`, which is the rest of the work, and we get back our final result, which is `3 * (3 + 4) = 21`.

So that is how `ret` works. As you can see, it is very much like an assembly line, where each function functions (he he) like a worker. That worker gets an argument from the last worker and returns a value to be used by the next worker.

Now that we explained `ret`, let's look at `bind`:

```javascript
function bind(mon, func) {
  return function(cont) {
    return mon(val => func(val)(cont));
  }
}
```

We can keep going with the assembly line analogy.

- Step 0: Some continuation gets passed into the function `function(cont) { ... }` that's returned by `bind`.

- Step 1: We pass `val => func(val)(cont)` to `mon` (the monadic value). Remember that `mon` is a function that takes in the continuation, and observe that `val => func(val)(cont)` is a continuation. We then get a new value, which is `(val => func(val)(cont))(a)`.

- Step 2: We pass `a` into the lambda function, so we end up with `func(a)(cont)`.

- Step 3: `func` always returns a function that takes in a continuation (much like `ret`). (Remember that this is enforced by the type signature of `bind`.) Thus, `func(a)` returns a function that takes in `cont` as an argument.

- Step 4: `cont` is passed into the function. The value of `a`, the work already done, is applied to `cont`, the rest of the work.

This may still seem confusing, so let's do a simple example: adding 2 plus 2!

Obviously in normal JS this is represented by the code `2 + 2`. But in the Continuation monad, we have to represent it like this:

```javascript
bind(ret(2), x => ret(x + 2));
```

You know the monad dance. We wrap `2` using `ret`, then our `func` (which is `x => ret(x + 2)`) takes what's inside `ret(2)`, adds it to `2`, and re-wraps the result in `ret(x + 2)`.

Let's expand out all the `ret`'s:

```javascript
bind(k1 => k1 (2), x => (k2 => k2 (x + 2)));
```

As you can see, `k1` and `k2` are variables that represent continuations. In both cases, we pass in the work that we've already done, which is `2` for `k1` and `x + 2` for `k2`.

Now let's expand out what happens in `bind`:

```javascript
k3 => ((k1 => k1 (2)) (val => (((x => (k2 => k2 (x + 2))) (val) (k3))))
```

Now we add another continuation variable, `k3`. We keep `(k1 => k1 (2))` unchanged since that is our `mon` value, and we don't change `mon` in `bind`. But since `x => (k2 => k2 (x + 2))` is our `func`, we put it in the `val => func(val)(cont)` structure.

Now let's apply the whole `val => func(val)(cont)` mess into `mon`, by substituting `k1` for it:

```javascript
k3 => ((val => (((x => (k2 => k2 (x + 2))) (val) (k3))) (2))
```

Now let's apply `2`, the work we've already did, to the continuation:

```javascript
k3 => ((x => (k2 => k2 (x + 2))) (2) (k3))
```

Now that we've set `val` to be `2`, we can use it with the rest of the work, by applying `2` to `x`:

```javascript
k3 => ((k2 => k2 (2 + 2)) (k3))
```

And we can add `2 + 2` to get `4`:

```javascript
k3 => ((k2 => k2 (4)) (k3))
```

And we've reached the limit of what we can do in the monad. Since we didn't apply any value to `k3`, we can't perform any more function applications or monad operations. But suppose we want to escape the monad. That's where `run` comes in:

```javascript
function run(mon) {
  return mon(x => x);
}
```

As always, `run` is what we use to exit the monad. In this case, we run whatever is in `mon`, then we apply `x => x` to return the value of everything that was already done. Think about `x => x` as a continuation: once you've done everything, what else is there left to do except for returning the final value?

Let's imagine we're running our two-plus-two program using `run`:

```javascript
run(bind(ret(2), x => ret(x + 2)));
```

Expanding out `run`, we get:

```javascript
(bind(ret(2), x => ret(x + 2))) (x2 => x2); // Use x2 as to not confuse the two x's
```

Then when we run our monad as before, we'll eventually get:

```javascript
(k3 => ((k2 => k2 (4)) (k3))) (x2 => x2)
```

We can that substitute `x2 => x2` for the continuation variable `k3`:

```javascript
(k2 => k2 (4)) (x2 => x2)
```

Then in turn we can substitute `x2 => x2` for `k2`:

```javascript
(x2 => x2) (4)
```

And we thus get out `4`, the final result we want. Horray.

**Problem 4.1.0:** Phew, that was a long lesson, so let's unwind our minds with a problem.

Remember our example `(1 + 2) * (3 + 4)` from the last lesson? Use the Continuation monad to do computations like these.

In the code below, complete `addMon` and `multMon` so that they return the result wrapped as a monadic value (in other words, don't return numbers). In addition, complete `addAndMultMon` so that it does the computation `(n1 + n2) * (n3 + n4)` and also returns a monadic value. Make sure to use `ret` and `bind` in the right places.

```problem
///// CODE
// The Continuation monad
function ret(a) {
  return function(cont) {
    return cont(a);
  }
}

function bind(mon, func) {
  return function(cont) {
    return mon(val => func(val)(cont));
  }
}

function run(mon) {
  return mon(val => val);
}

function addMon() {
  // TODO: Your code here
  // Note: You must use ret here
}

function multMon() {
  // TODO: Your code here
  // Note: You must use ret here
}

function addAndMultMon() {
  // TODO: Your code here
  // Note: You must use bind here
}

///// SOLUTION
function ret(a) {
  return function(cont) { return cont(a); }
}

function bind(mon, func) {
  return function(cont) { return mon(val => func(val)(cont)); }
}

function run(mon) {
  return mon(val => val);
}

function addMon(x, y) {
  return ret(x + y);
}

function multMon(x, y) {
  return ret(x * y);
}

function addAndMultMon(n1, n2, n3, n4) {
  return bind(addMon(n1, n2), s1 => {
    return bind(addMon(n3, n4), s2 => {
      return multMon(s1, s2);
    })
  });
} 

///// TESTS
typeof addMon(1, 2) ==> "function"
typeof multMon(3, 7) ==> "function"
typeof addAndMultMon(1, 2, 3, 4) ==> "function"
run(addMon(1, 2)) ==> 3
run(addMon(3, 4)) ==> 7
run(multMon(3, 7)) ==> 21
run(addAndMultMon(1, 2, 3, 4)) ==> 21

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```
If you notice, both `ret` and `bind` return a function of form `function(cont) { ... }`, ie. they are functions that take in continuations as their argument. This is the contract we need to maintain for every operation in the monad (except `run`, since that's what you use to get out of the monad).
