# Lesson 4.2: call/cc and throw

Remember the continuation monad from the last lesson? 

```javascript
function ret(a) {
  return function(cont) {
    return cont(a);
  }
}

function bind(mon, func) {
  return function(cont) {
    return mon(val => func(val)(cont));
  }
}

function run(mon) {
  return mon(val => val);
}
```
The thing is if you're using the monad, you have no way to access the continuation outside of the monad. The ret part takes the `a`, the work already done, and returns a `function(cont)` that has `cont(a)` in its body. But the `function(cont)` is the wrapper. You can't access what's inside the wrapper. You get `function(cont)` but you don't have the `cont`. You can't access the continuation itself.

So what you need to access `cont` is to go into some sort of God mod. Luckily, you can do that with _callcc_! The operation call/cc stands for _call with current continuation_. The reason it's called that is that if you call _call/cc_, then you will have access to the continuation and you can do whatever you want. Basically, you have become God.

```javascript
function callcc(func) {
  return function(cont) {
    return (func(cont))(cont);
  }
}
```

`callcc` takes a function, `func` that itself is in the form of `function(cont)`. So `callcc` is taking a function that accepts a continuation as an argument. How convenient that this is what you got back from `ret`, `bind`, or any other function in the monad! That is the contract you signed. Everything has to be in the form `function(cont)`. Otherwise you will break the monad and you will be sad.

Now let's talk about why `func` gets two continuations. The first application of `cont` to `func` gives the global continuation to `func`. The global continuation is the continuation that we have been passing along this whole time, before we called `callcc`. The second application of `cont` is then passed into the result of `(func(cont))`, which is of the form `function(cont)`.  This is to give that function the global continuation if `func(cont)` did not do anything special to `cont`. 

But what if something did happen to `cont`? We have yet another operation called `throw`.

```javascript
function throw(cont, x) {
  return function(cont) {
    return cont(x);
  }
}
```

`throw` is if something went wrong, just like if you throw an exception (remember `raise` in the Exception monad?). `throw` means throw whatever you have on the ground, out the window, under the bus, or anywhere else, and return something different instead.

Once you call `throw` in call/cc, you pass a custom value `x` to `cont`. In other words, you pass along a new, custom "work that is already done" to your continuation, which is different from the work you've actually already done in your program. That actual work that you've already done is thrown out. You can never find that original work again; as your program runs, every continuation only knows about the work done in `x`.
