#Lesson 4.3: Async/await

You probably have used async/await in Javascript - and it does a lot of magic.  Sometimes, when something is doing magic, it makes it harder to use because you don't have any intuition about what's going on. When I first learned about recursion, I couldn't figure out how to use it or why it was doing what it was doing. Thankfully, someone thought to explain the stack to me. Then I could imagine that the call stack was my stack and what I was putting on it and popping off it. Then recursion was easy.

We're going to look under the hood of async/await and understand what it's _really_ doing.

async/await lets you start a function, then continue on in your main thread while the function does its thing in the background. It lets you do fake concurrency without the complexity of threads. Usually it's used when you need to wait for a task that takes a long time, such as waiting for a remote machine or retrieving something from a database. Without async/await, we have to wait for everything start, then finish, then start, then finish one after each other, which will lead to spinning beach balls of death every time you open a browser.

Here's an example of async/await:

```javascript
async countItems() {
  let items = await fetch("/items", { method: "POST" });
  let count = items.length();
  return count;
}

let count = countItems();
console.log("Count is " + count);
console.log("I'm doing something else!");
```

When `countItems` is called, it makes a `POST` request to the server, which queries a database, and asks for all the items in the database. (If you don't know what `POST` means, don't worry.  `POST` is just is telling the server some information)

The `async` keyword marks the function as having the `await` keyword in the function body. If a function uses the `await` keyword without being marked `async`, you will get a syntax error.

Then in the function, the code basically does what you think it would do if you read it as a sentence: we wait for the server to fetch the items using the `POST` request.

While we wait for `fetch` to finish, because it's marked with `await` in front, our thread can go do other things. When `fetch` returns, then we deal with the information it returned to us; in this case, it's an array of items, which we can then get the count of using `length`.

(Note: Technically we first need to call `json()` on `items`, but that requires a second `await` because JSON parsing can take a while, so we're handwaving that part for simplicity.)

If `await` was not used, the browser will have to wait for `fetch` to return before it does anything else, causing it to freeze and the user to become very angry.

Now here's a fact about async/await: it's just syntactic sugar! When the browser compiles your JavaScript, it gets rid of async/await and replaces it with lower-level code that does the same thing. (This is in part because async/await is a relatively new feature, so compilers replace it with what was used in older versions of JS so that old and new code work in exactly the same way.)

Now, we will show you what the compiler turns into async/await into!!! This seems like magic, but in reality, it's even better. It's continuations!

Let's start by explaining `useData`. So, we have to give `bind` the two things it needs: the monadic value and the function. `callcc` gives back a wrapped monadic value, and bind will unwrap that data. Remember, `bind` is always `bind(mon, func)`. `callcc` is the continuation taking function, and the continuation is the rest of the work.

`res1` is the work that is already done at the point in time that `then` was called. Then, `res1` is applied to `cont`. So, `res1` replaces the work that was already done. `res1` captures the work that was already done after `useData`.

If you're using async/await, you have a different "work that you've already" done, than if you had ignored everything else, had a beachball of death, and just waited for the result to come back without doing anything else in the meantime. 

```javascript
// Goodbye async/await!

function everything() {
  bind(
    bind(callcc(cont => {
      return (fetch ("/items", { method: "POST" })).then(items => {
        return throw(cont, items);
      })
    }, items2 => {
      let count = items2.length();
      return ret(count); // Returns a cont => cont(count)
  }), count2 => {
    console.log("Count is " + count2);
    console.log("I'm doing something else!");
  }
}

run(everything());
```

In our example, we get rid of the call to `countItems` and inline it in a mega-function called `everything`. Running this code takes several steps:

- Step 0: Call `run` on `everything`, which will give us the result in the end.

- Step 1: `fetch` runs as normal, and returns `items` as its result.

- Step 2: Since `fetch` is now in the body of a function that's passed to `callcc`, we have access to the continuation `cont`. We can now call `throw` on both `cont` and `items`. Remember that `items` is now the new "work that was already done." We can throw out the previous "work that was already done" because we already executed it, so we don't need it anymore. That's the magic of async/await - once `await` gives back its result, we can focus on that and ignore the work we've did so far.

- Step 3: In the function `items2 => ...`, `items2` is the new "work that was already done," and it's the same thing as `items`. We then can get its `length` as before to get `count`, which we then pass to `ret`.

- Step 4: Now that we passed `count` to `ret`, `count` is the "work that was already done". This is shown in the function `count2 => ...`, in which we use `count2` with the rest of the work.

And that's how async/await works! It's just continuations!