# Lesson 2.0: Exceptions in JavaScript

If you’ve done programming for longer than, say, two days, you’ve probably run into exceptions. You know, the things that you write in your program in anticipation of it dun-goofing and blowing up. Let’s review what an exception looks like in JavaScript:

```javascript
function tryAdd(x, y) {
  throw "error!";
  return x + y;
}

function addCatcher() {
  try {
    return tryAdd(1, 2);
  } catch(error) {
    return error;
  }
}

// Expected output: Error: Uh oh!
```

Here, we see the two parts of any exception handling procedure: a `throw` clause and a `try...catch` block. In the function `tryAdd`, if we didn’t have that `throw` clause, we would return the sum of `x` and `y`. But because we do, that line is dead code. We always throw an exception before we return a value. That’s why exceptions are side effects - our function is outputting something that is not its actual return value, interrupting the normal flow of the program.

Below, we have a `try...catch` block, which “tries” the code that may throw an exception and “catches” any exceptions if they do happen. Here, we try to add two numbers in the `try` block, but instead of a sum we get an exception. Because of this, we run the code in the `catch` block.

Granted, this is a simplistic example; you would never write code like this in real life. But imagine a world without exception handling. If a piece of code blows up, say it divides by zero, it can wreak havoc on the rest of the program, potentially causing it to crash and spawn universe-consuming black holes.

Ok, maybe not the last part. But division by zero is bad, so we need exception handling.

**Problem 2.0.0:** Write a `tryDivide` function that divides two numbers. If a division by zero error is encountered, throw the error message `"division by zero!"`. Also write a `divisionByZeroCatch` function that has a `try...catch` block in it to catch any exceptions from `tryDivide`.

```problem
///// CODE
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  // TODO: Your code here  
}

function divisionByZeroCatch(x, y) {
  // TODO: Your code here
}

///// SOLUTION
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  if (y === 0) {
    throw "division by zero!";
  } else {
    return x / y;
  }
}

function divisionByZeroCatch(x, y) {
  try {
    return tryDivide(x, y);
  } catch(error) {
    return error;
  }
}

///// TESTS
tryDivide(4, 2); ==> 2
divisionByZeroCatch(2, 4); ==> 0.5
divisionByZeroCatch(2, 0); ==> "division by zero!"

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```

**Problem 2.0.1:** It's actually not a good idea to throw raw strings in JavaScript. Instead, the usual way is to throw an `Error` object. Rewrite `tryDivide` and `divisionByZeroCatch` to use `Error` instead of strings (though make sure `divisionByZeroCatch` still returns the same error message as in the previous problem).

```problem
///// CODE
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  // TODO: Your code here 
}

function divisionByZeroCatch(x, y) {
  // TODO: Your code here  
}

///// SOLUTION
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  if (y === 0) {
    throw new Error("division by zero!");
  } else {
    return x / y;
  }
}

function divisionByZeroCatch(x, y) {
  try {
    return tryDivide(x, y);
  } catch(error) {
    return error.message;
  }
}

///// TESTS
tryDivide(4, 2); ==> 2
divisionByZeroCatch(2, 4); ==> 0.5
divisionByZeroCatch(2, 0); ==> "division by zero!"

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```

As we see, JavaScript has its own exception handling capabilities. How cute. Let’s rebuild it from scratch, this time in a functional manner!
