# Lessons 2.2: Homegrown Exceptions Pt. 1

So let’s imagine we’re starting from functional JavaScript and we want to add our own exceptions in. We know that they need two parts: a way to throw exceptions and a way to catch them. Let’s consider an operation `raise`, named differently in order to distinguish from JS's built-in `throw` keyword. Since people often talk about "raising" an exception as a synonym for throwing them, it's a decent name.

What does `raise` do? For now, let's make `raise` do absolutely nothing:

```javascript
function raise() {}
```

What? How does that make sense? Well, the key idea is that we call `raise` to return from a function early, before we reached that real return statement. That’s cool; if you see a function like this:

```javascript
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  if (y === 0) {
    return raise();
  } else {
    return x / y;
  }
}
```

You immediately know "Hey, if the divisor equals 0, that means we call `raise` and return from the function early! Hooray for no division by zero!"

If you’re there thinking "hey, it’s a side effect, we shouldn’t be returning anything," you’ll be right. What we’re basically doing is faking the exception side effect by returning early.

Now that we can throw exceptions, how do we catch them? Just like default JS has try-catch clauses, we can define a function `tryWith` that does something similar. (Why the name? Again, we want to be different!) What should it do? Remember what a function does: it takes in an input and outputs something. In this case, `tryWith` ideally should take whatever another function returns and, if said return value was produced by an exception, handle it and produce its own output.

Except...`raise` doesn't return anything, so how does `tryWith` know it's dealing with an exception? For now, you figure it out. We'll look at a more sophisticated way of doing exceptions in the next lesson.

**Problem 2.1.0:** This exercise has two parts. First, modify `raise` so that it returns a value. Next, write a function `tryWith` that takes in one argument, the result of some function. If that function returns an exception, `tryWith` should output `"Error!"`; otherwise, it should not affect the output of that function.

```problem
///// CODE
function raise() {
  // TODO: your code here
}

// Do not change; use this function to check for exception
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  if (y == 0) {
    return raise();
  } else {
    return x / y;
  }
}

function tryWith(result) {
  // TODO: your code here
}

///// SOLUTION
function raise() {
    return null;
}

// Do not change; use this function to check for exception
function tryDivide(x, y) {
  if (y == 0) {
    return raise();
  } else {
    return x / y;
  }
}

function tryWith(result) {
  if (result == null) {
    return "Error!";
  } else {
    return result;
  }
}

///// TESTS
tryWith(tryDivide(1, 0)) ==> "Error!"
tryWith(tryDivide(1, 1)) ==> 1
tryWith(tryDivide(0, 1)) ==> 0
tryWith(tryDivide(6, -2)) ==> -3

///// KEYWORDS
raise:
tryDivide: raise
tryWith:

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```