# Lesson 2.2: The concept of monad 

So the difference between a monad and a monoid is the monad takes a value of
AnythingAtAll type and returns a value of AnythingAtAll type.

A monad returns a transform of AnythingAtAll type.

So we have:
FunFunction: AnythingAtAll -> Transform(AnythingAtAll)
GreatFunction: AnythingAtAll -> Transform(AnythingAtAll)

and as long as Transform does the same thing in every function, we are still in
the land of function composition and still have that fantastic associative
property. 

Transform could do anything. We don't care at all. It could multiply everything
by five. It could turn everything into a ðŸ‘. We could send it off to the edge of
the universe and wait for it to come back, full of galaxy dust and freezing
cold. It doesn't matter that the limits of a programming language preclude these
things. The main idea is that we don't care, and now that we're using math, we
don't even care about the limits of language. 

Alright, let's get all the way there. There's a thing called lambda notation
that uses the little lambda symbol. 

Î» -> 

In JavaScript, that's like

```javascript
a => 

Lambda means the same thing in math.

So in math we can have:
Î» a -> (FunFunction a).bind(lambda a (GreatFunction a))

and we can have the same meaning in JavaScript

```javascript
a => (FunFunction(a).bind(a => GreatFunction(a))
```

So the Î» is just saying it's a function, more or less.

So look back to what FunFunction takes and returns. It takes AnythingAtAll, and
returns a Transform(AnythingAtAll). GreatFunction takes AnythingAtAll and
returns Transform(AnythingAtAll). Since the right side and the left side do the
same thing, we stay in the land of function composition and retain the
associative property. So we don't care about order still, as long as grouping
gets maintained. 
