# Lesson 2.4: In a Bind

Imagine if we have have the following code snippet:

```javascript
let x = tryDivide(6, 3);
x + 2; // 4
```

In programming language parlance, that is called a `let` binding, because we bind a value to a variable (in this case `2` to the variable `x`).

All fine and dandy right? Well, what about this:

```javascript
let x = tryDivide(6, 0);
x + 2;
```

JavaScript will at least let you concatenate an `Exn` object with a number, and you'll probably get something stupid like `"Exn2"`. Other programming languages will likely not be as forgiving.

Either way, you don't want to return `"Exn2"` or end up with a crash. Instead, if `tryDivide` throws an exception, you want to pass the exception along without touching `x + 2`. You would want something like this:

```javascript
let x = tryDivide(6, 3);
if (x instanceof Exn) {
  x;
} else {
  x + 2;
}
```

Here, if `tryDivide` throws an `Error` object, we return the `Error` object unchanged. Otherwise, we add `2` to it, just like before. Of course, since putting `if...else` statements everywhere will seriously clutter our code, we need a better way.

**Problem 1.4.0:** Write a function `newLet` that takes in a value `x` and a function `fn`. (Remember that we can pass functions as arguments!) If `x` is an `Error`, `newLet` should simply return the `Error` as-is. Otherwise, pass `x` as an argument to `fn`.

```problem
///// CODE
// Your answers for Exn, raise, and tryWith in the previous lessons
// should look something like this
class Exn {
  constructor(message) {
    this.message = message;
  }
}

function raise(message) {
  return new Exn(message);
}

function tryWith(result, func) {
  if (result instanceof Exn) {
    return func(result.message);
  } else {
    return result;
  }
}

function newLet(x, fn) {
  // TODO: Your code here 
}

///// SOLUTION
class Exn {
  constructor(message) { this.message = message; }
}

function raise(message) {
  return new Exn(message);
}

function tryWith(result, func) {
  if (result instanceof Exn) return func(result.message);
  else return result;
}

function newLet(x, fn) {
  if (x instanceof Exn) {
    return x;
  } else {
    return fn(x);
  }
}

///// TESTS
newLet(2, x => x + 2) ==> 4
newLet(raise("Error"), x => x + 2).constructor.name ==> "Exn"
newLet(raise("Error"), x => x + 2).message ==> "Error"

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```

Now, instead of our old-fashioned `let` bindings, we have a function `newLet` that abstracts away much of the exceptions-related complexity for us.

Hmm. Our `newLet` code surely looks familiar. It's a function that takes in two arguments, one of them a function, and it applies the function to the other argument. Have we seen something like this before?

Oh yes! It's just like `bind` from Course 1!

As you should know, `bind` is one of the basic monad operations. It takes in a monadic value like `x` and a function `func` that returns a new monadic value.

Except that not quite, since `x` is not a monadic value yet. We will rectify that issue in the next lesson.