# Lesson 2.6: Wrapping things up

Horray! We have a monad, complete with a monadic type, `ret`, `bind`, and `run`. Let's take a look at what we have from our last lesson:

```javascript
class Exn {
  constructor(msg) {
    this.message = msg;
  }
}

class Value {
  constructor(x) {
    this.x = x;
  }
}

function ret(x) {
  return new Value(x);
}

function bind(mon, func) {
  if (mon instanceof Exn) {
    return mon;
  } else if (mon instanceof Value) {
    return func(mon.x);
  }
}

function raise(msg) {
  return new Exn(msg);
}

function tryWith(mon, func) {
  if (mon instanceof Exn) {
    return func(mon.message);
  } else if (mon instanceof Value) {
    return  mon;
  }
}

function run(mon) {
  if (mon instanceof Exn) {
    return undefined;
  } else if (mon instanceof Value) {
    return mon.x;
  }
}
```

Cool, cool. But we have something missing: actual types that we can write. Technically JavaScript has types that we can internally, but there's not very useful for our purposes. For instance, suppose that you wrote bad monadic code and you pass in something to `tryWith` that's netiher an `Exn` or `Value`. Then the code will blow up.

Fortunately, we have a solution: TypeScript. Bringing type safety to webdev since 2012.

One of the cool things about TypeScript is that we can get rid of classes, and with it ugly `instanceof` statements. First, we can replace our wrapper classes with TypeScript _interfaces_, which are what's usually used to represent "wrapper" types. We can replace our `Exn` and our `Value`, with TypeScript interfaces `E` and `V`:

```typescript
interface E {
  message: string
}

interface V {
  value: any
}
```

Now our interface `E` wraps a `message` of type `string`, which makes sense for messages. Meanwhile `V` contains a single field `value` that is of type...`any`! Seriously! `any` is a TypeScript that allows a value to be anything, such as a `string`, a `number`, etc.

Sometimes, that's not what we want (or else what's the point of typechecking?) But we don't want to have `value` have a specific type like `string`, `number`, etc. either, since that's obviously too restrictive. Instead, we use _generics_ to find a middle ground:

```typescript
interface V<A> {
  value: A
}
```

Unlike types like `number` or `string`, `A` is a generic type that is defined during the runtime. Now we can say stuff like `fun(m: V<A>): V<B>`, such as if we want a function that, for instance takes a `V` that wraps a `number` into one that wraps a `string`.

Now that we have two interfaces, `V<A>` and `E`, we can combine them into a single type. If we stuck to JavaScript, we could use inheritance to describe a `Monadic` superclass. But in TypeScript, we can create our monadic type in a far more concise manner, as so:

```typescript
type Mon<A> = V<A> | E
```

Our monadic type `Mon` is an example of a _union type_, which can be read as "`Mon<A>` can be a `V<A>` _or_ a `E`. Note that because `V<A>` takes a generic type parameter, `Mon<A>` also needs to take such a parameter.

We can go further by creating a _discriminated union type_. To do so, we add another field in our interface (conventionally called `kind`) that allows us to distinguish (ie. discriminate) between `V<A>` and `E` in `switch` statements:

```typescript
interface V<A> {
  kind: "value",
  value: A
}

interface E {
  kind: "exception",
  exception: Error
}
```

Now, instead of a clumsy `if` statement that uses `instanceof`, we can use `switch` statements to match on our `Mon` type in `bind`:

```typescript
function bind<A, B>(mon: Mon<A>, func: (a: A) => EMon<B>): EMon<B> {
  switch(mon.kind) { // match on the kind parameter
    case "exception":
      return mon;
    case "value":
      return func(mon.value);
  }
}
```

In addition, we can simplify how we write `ret` to:

```typescript
function ret<A>(a: A): Mon<A> {
  return { kind: "value", value x }
}
```
Note that in addition to replacing `if` with `switch`, we have a bunch of type-related stuff in the function definition.

Finally, we have `run`, which as you recall takes our monad, runs it, and unwraps it to get back what's inside. Talking about types, we take a `Mon<A>` and return an `A`.

```typescript
function run<A>(mon: Mon<A>): A {
  if (mon instanceof Exn) {
      return undefined;
  } else if (mon instanceof Value) {
      return mon.x;
  }
}
```

While it looks confusing, it's actually helpful because it tells us explicitly the type signatures of our monadic operations:

- `ret<A>` has type signature `(a: A) -> Mon<A>`, meaning it takes a regular value of type `A` and returns a wrapped, monadic value of `Mon<A>`.

- `bind<A, B>` has type signature `(m: Mon<A>, func: (a: A) => Mon<B>) -> Mon<B>`. This tells us that `bind` takes two arguments: a monadic value `m` (of type `Mon<A>`, meaning it wraps something of type `A`), and a function `func` (which takes in a regular value `a` of type `A`, and returns a monadic value of type `Mon<B>`). `bind` then returns something of type `Mon<B>` (which makes sense, since it runs `func` and that's what `func` returns).

- `run<A>` takes something of `Mon<A>` and returns an `A`. Which makes sense, because `run` needs to unwrap the monad.

Finally, what about `raise` and `tryWith`? In the land of monads, every operation needs to return something of type `Mon<A>`, or else we would've escaped the monad. Because we don't want our monad to leak `A`'s, both `raise` and `tryWith` have the return type `Mon<A>`.

For types of the arguments, `raise` takes in a message, which is obviously always a `string`. Meanwhile `tryWith` takes in its two arguments: a monadic value of type `Mon<A>` and a function that wraps the exception's message in a `Mon<B>`. (See how `raise` and `tryWith` are similar to `ret` and `bind`, respectively)?

And so, we have a typed monad that looks like this:

```typescript
// Types
interface V<A> {
  kind: "value",
  value: A
}

interface E {
  kind: "exception",
  exception: Error
}

type Mon<A> = V<A> | E;

// Monad Operations
function ret<A>(x: A): Mon<A> {
  return { kind: "value", value: x }
}

function bind<A, B>(mon: Mon<A>, func: (a: A) => Mon<B>): Mon<B> {
  switch (mon.kind) {
    case "value":
      return func(mon.value);
    case "exception":
      return mon;
  }
}

function run<A>(mon: Mon<A>): A {
  switch (mon.kind) {
    case "value":
      return mon.value;
    case "exception":
      return undefined;
  }
}

// Exception-specific Operations
function raise<A>(msg: string): Mon<A> {
  return { kind: "exception"; message: msg }
}

function trywith<A, B>(mon: Mon<A>, func: (msg: string) => Mon<B>): Mon<B> {
  switch (mon.kind) {
    case "value":
      return mon;
    case "exception":
      func(mon.message);
  }
}
```