In functional programming languages, you have to use recursion in order to perform iteration. Recursion is when you call a function from within itself. Here is an implementation of `map` that uses recursion instead of iteration:

```javascript
function mapFunctional(fn, list) {
    last = list.last();
    rest = list.pop();
    if (last === undefined) {
        return List();
    } else {
        let newLast = fn(last);
        let newRest = mapFunctional(fn, rest);
        return newRest.push(newLast);
    }
}
```

(Inspired by code from https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/implement-array-map-with-recursion-35976d0325b2/)

Here, instead of a default JS array, which is mutable, `mapFunctional` takes in Immutable.js's `List` object as one of its arguments. We split the list into its last element and the rest of the elements (still in `List` form). We check if the last element of the list is undefined, ie. if it doesn’t exist. If that’s the case, we return an new `List` object.

Otherwise, we use take the last value and pass it to `fn`, which returns `newLast`. To create `newRest`, we call `mapFunctional` again, now from inside the body of `mapFunctional`! It may be tricky to wrap your head around this if you’re not used to recursion, but just trace these calls of `mapFunctional` all the way down.

If our list is empty, we return an empty list.

If our list only has a single element in it, `mapFunctional` calls itself on `rest` to create an empty list, and then appends `newLast` to it.

If our list has two elements, `mapFunctional` calls itself to create a one-element list, and then appends `newLast` to it to create a new, two-element list.

Note that throughout this function, we have not mutated a single `List` objects. We’ve only created new lists from old ones. Such is the power of functional programming, recursion, and immutability!