Also, since mutable objects like `thing` are a thing (again, no pun intended) in JS, does that mean that JS isn’t functional? That’s true, sort of. JavaScript and Python have functional programming concepts built into them, but since you can do non-functional programming in them as well, they’re not *pure* functional programming languages.

In a pure functional language like Haskell, any mutations and other non-functional stuff are prohibited. But in JavaScript, you can choose when to use functional programming and when not to, making it very flexible (some would say too flexible). In fact, Haskell is somewhat unusual in being a pure functional language. Most functional programming languages, such as OCaml and Clojure, have ways to implement non-functional stuff (though the non-functional stuff is less emphasized than in JS or Python), making them non-pure functional as well.

Anyways, back to immutable data structures. You might be wondering how you can do things without mutating objects. The key is that even though you can’t mutate existing variables or objects, you can create new data using immutable data. Take a look at this code:

```javascript
// List is an immutable object from Immutable.js
const list1 = List([1, 2, 3]);
const list2 = list1.map(x => x * 2);
// Expected result: list2 = [2, 4, 6]
```

As said before, `map` doesn’t mutate the array that it’s called on. Instead, it creates a new array out of the old one. Now we have two objects, `list1` and `list2`, running around. The `List` object is the same as it was before, as it is an immutable data structure.