# Lesson 1.0: What’s a Monad?

Greetings square one. We are so happy that you’ve started on your journey to the strange world of Monadland! It is a world that is the talk of legends and memes the world over, and you may be scared that monads are super, super, super hard. Like you may have seen the following definition:

Monad (noun):
1. A monoid in the category of endofunctors.
2. A burrito.

For regular folks like you and me, both definitions are weird, confusing, and obscure what a monad really is. In fact, monads are legendary in being difficult to explain. Thus results the saying: once you understand what a monad is, you’ll magically be unable to explain them to others.

Before we move on to some better definitions (for our purposes), let’s spend some time on those two confusing definitions. The first definitionj is actually a joke from [this humorous blog post](http://james-iry.blogspot.com/2009/05/brief-incomplete-and-mostly-wrong.html):

> 1990 - A committee formed by Simon Peyton-Jones, Paul Hudak, Philip Wadler, Ashton Kutcher, and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals creates Haskell, a pure, non-strict, functional language. Haskell gets some resistance due to the complexity of using monads to control side effects. Wadler tries to appease critics by explaining that "a monad is a monoid in the category of endofunctors, what's the problem?"

It did start out as a serious definition that was derived from the mathematical field of category theory. But math is hard, so we’re not going to show any math for a long, long time.

Instead, we’re going to teach monads like how they’re actually used in programming languages. That’s where the second definition is actually better. Although you can’t order a monad at Chipotle, it does describe one way of looking at monads: as wrappers. Just like how a burrito wraps meat and guacamole in a tortilla shell, a monad wraps an underlying data object, like an integer or a string.

(And just for fun, [here’s a cartoon of the whole “monads being burrito” thing](https://chrisdone.com/posts/monads-are-burritos/))

So that’s one way of thinking about monads, as things that wrap data. Monads can also be thought about as libraries of operations that work with that data. Some operations wrap data, some operations unwrap data, and some operations stuff that data into functions.

To be precise, all monads have three basic components:

- A _monadic type_, which is a wrapper type of our regular data. 
- `ret`: An operation that takes wraps data.
- `bind`: An operation that takes a wrapped object and a function get another wrapped object.

In addition, many monads have an additional operation:
- `run`: An operation that unwraps a wrapped object.

To use the burrito analogy:
- Underlying data = the filling
- Monadic type = the filling + the tortilla
- `ret` = the Chipotle worker who makes the tortilla
- `bind` = a magic machine that turns one burrito into another
- `run` = the customer that unwraps the burrito to eat it

Yay, so we have this library that does stuff. But where can we use it? Turns out, we can use it in lots of places, usually to isolate side effects in functional programming. (Don’t know what that sentence means? Go to Course 0!) With a monad, we can create a space in our program to do all of the side effects we want, from exceptions to state to I/O, and then once we’re done we can call `run` to unwrap all of our wrapped objects and go back to pure function land.

That’s why monads are often described as a design pattern: these three operations are used in so many places to isolate many different kinds of side effects, so it would make sense to point out the commonalities and put them into one place.

Ok, you’re probably still confused as to what a monad is. And you’re probably confused on where to use monads in the first place. And you’re probably hungry for burritos. Let’s start with an example of a simple but practical side effect: exceptions.
