# Lesson 1.1: Exceptions in JavaScript

If you’ve done programming for longer than, say, two days, you’ve probably run into exceptions. You know, the things that you write in your program in anticipation of it dun-goofing and blowing up. Let’s review what an exception looks like in JavaScript:

```javascript
function tryAdd(x, y) {
	throw “Boo!”
	return x + y;
}

try {
	let sum = tryAdd(2, 2);
} catch {
	let errorMsg = “Error!”
}
```

Here, we see the two parts of any exception handling procedure: a throw clause and a try catch block. In the function tryAdd, if we didn’t have that throw clause, we would return the sum of x and y. But because we do, that line is dead code; we always throw an exception before we return a value. That’s why exceptions are side effects - our function is outputting something that is not its actual return value, interrupting the normal flow of the program.

Below, we have a try catch block, which “tries” the code that may throw an exception and “catches” any exceptions if they do happen. Here, we try to add two numbers, but instead of a sum we get an exception. Because of this, we run the code in the catch block.

Granted, this is a simplistic example; you would never write code like this in real life. But imagine a world without exception handling. If a piece of code blows up, say it divides by zero, it can wreak havoc on the rest of the program, potentially causing it to crash and spawn universe-consuming black holes.

Ok, maybe not the last part. But division by zero is bad, so we need exception handling.

As we see, JavaScript has its own exception handling capabilities. How cute. Let’s rebuild it from scratch, this time in a functional manner!