# Lesson 1.2: The concept of monad 

So the difference between a monad and a monoid is the monad takes a value of `AnythingAtAll` type and returns a value of `AnythingAtAll` type.

A monad returns a transform of AnythingAtAll type.

So we have:
```text
funFunction: AnythingAtAll -> transform(AnythingAtAll)
greatFunction: AnythingAtAll -> transform(AnythingAtAll)
```

and as long as `transform` does the same thing in every function, we are still in the land of function composition and still have that fantastic associative property. 

The `transform` operation could do anything. We don't care at all. It could multiply everything by five. It could turn everything into a . We could send it off to the edge of the universe and wait for it to come back, full of galaxy dust and freezing cold. It doesn't matter that the limits of a programming language preclude these things.

The main idea is that we don't care, and now that we're using math, we don't even care about the limits of language. 

Alright, let's get all the way there. There's a thing called lambda notation that uses the little lambda symbol: `位 -> `

In JavaScript, that's like

```javascript
a => 
```

Lambda means the same thing in math.

So in math we can have:
```text
位 a -> (funFunction a).bind(位 a (greatFunction a))
```

and we can have the same meaning in JavaScript

```javascript
a => (funFunction(a).bind(a => greatFunction(a))
```

So the `位` is just saying it's a function, more or less. (We'll cover what this `bind` this is in a later lesson.)

So look back to what `funFunction` takes and returns. It takes `AnythingAtAll`, and returns a `transform(AnythingAtAll)`. Meanwhile `greatFunction` takes `AnythingAtAll` and
returns `transform(AnythingAtAll)`.

Since the right side and the left side do the same thing, we stay in the land of function composition and retain the associative property. So we don't care about order still, as long as grouping gets maintained. 