# Lesson 1.4: In a Bind

Imagine if we have have the following code snippit:

```javascript
let x = tryDivide(6, 3);
x + 2; // 4
```

In programming language parlance, that is called a `let` binding, because we bind a value to a variable (in this case `2` to the variable `x`).

All fine and dandy right? Well, what about this:

```javascript
let x = tryDivide(6, 0);
x + 2;
```

JavaScript will at least let you concatenate an `Exn` object with a number, and you'll probably get something stupid like `"Exn2"`. Other programming languages will likely not be as forgiving.

Either way, you don't want to return `"Exn2"` or end up with a crash. Instead, if `tryDivide` throws an exception, you want to pass the exception along without touching `x + 2`. You would want something like this:

```javascript
let x = tryDivide(6, 3);
if (x instanceof Exn) {
  x;
} else {
  x + 2;
}
```

Here, if `tryDivide` throws an `Error` object, we return the `Error` object unchanged. Otherwise, we add `2` to it, just like before. Of course, since putting `if...else` statements everywhere will seriously clutter our code, we need a better way.

**Problem 1.4.0:** Write a function `newLet` that takes in a value `x` and a function `fn`. (Remember that we can pass functions as arguments!) If `x` is an `Error`, `newLet` should simply return the `Error` as-is. Otherwise, pass `x` as an argument to `fn`.

''''problem
function newLet(x, fn) {
  // Your code here
}

// TESTS
// newLet(tryDivide(6, 3), x => x + 2) ===> 4
// newLet(tryDivide(6, 0), x => x + 2) ===> Error
''''

Now, instead of our old-fashioned `let` bindings, we have a function `newLet` that abstracts away much of the complexity for us. And in monad-speak, there's another name for `newLet`: `bind`. Sounds familiar? That is because `bind` is one of the basic monad operations: it takes a monadic value and a function to return a new monadic value.

However, we are still far from done. We have `bind`, but so far it doesn't actually take in a monadic value.
