# Lesson 1.5: Wrapping things up

So far, we have two types of data: `Error` objects and everything else. So far it works with our exception quasi-monad, but we don't have a true monad since we don't have actual monadic types, monadic variables, or anything fancy like that. We do have a `bind` operation that works on our values, but since it's not working with real monadic types, it's not the same as the `bind` operator in a real monad.

For our exceptions, it seems fine, but it won't work for more complex monads like the state monad, where you have to keep the current state alongside the current value you're working with. After all, the essence of a monad is that it wraps stuff and operates on wrap data. No wrapping means no monads. It's like buying a bowl at Chipotle with a tortilla on the side and calling it a burrito.

(Protip: If you're deciding what to order at Chiptole, you actually get more food in a bowl than in a burrito. So maybe wrapping food isn't all that it's cracked up to be?)

Let's create a class called `Value` that's nothing more except for a wrapper for our regular values:

```javascript
class Value {
  constructor(x) {
    this.x = x;
  }
}
```

And to create a class, we have a wrapper function, which in monad-speak we call `ret`:

```javascript
function ret(x) {
  return new Value(x);
}
```

And we can rewrite our `bind` function to incorporate this new `Value` type:

```javascript
function bind(m, fn) {
  if (m instanceof Error) {
    return m;
  } else if (m instanceof Value) {
    return fn(m.x);
  }
}
```

Notice how `fn` is a function that takes in the underlying value `m.x`, not `m` itself.

With this idea, we can keep the `raise` the function the same: it still returns a new `Error`. But `tryWith` will have to be modified.

**Problem 1.5.0:** Modify the `tryWith` function to always return a `Value` object. Expect that `tryWith` will only accept `Error` and `Value` types.

''''problem
function tryWith(m) {
  // Your code here
}
''''

Horray! We have a monad! We have `ret`, `bind`, and monadic types...except not really. Because `Value` and `Error` are not really types; they're just the name of classes. To introduce actual types, we need to use TypeScript.

Keep in mind the purpose of our types - as monadic types, they need to wrap underlying data, much like our `Value` class did. To do this in TypeScript, the usual way is to implement an interface that wraps the value:

```typescript
interface V {
  value: any
}
```

Our interface `V` contains a single field `value` that can be of `any` type. Which means that `value` can be of any type. Seriously! `any` is a type in TypeScript that allows a value to be anything, such as a `string`, a `number`, etc.

Sometimes, that's not what we want (or else what's the point of typechecking?) But we don't want to have `value` have type `string`, `number`, etc. either, since that's obviously too restrictive. Instead, we use _generics_ to find a middle ground between `value` having a specific type and basically not having a type at all:

```typescript
interface V<A> {
  value: A
}
```

Now we can say stuff like `fun(m: V<A>): V<B>`, such as if we want a function that, for instance takes a `V` that wraps a `number` into one that wraps a `string`.

We also want a wrapper that wraps our exceptions. We can create a similar interface `E` that wraps an `Error` object (giving us an additional layer of abstraction). Since we're only dealing with `Error` objects here, we don't need to introduce generics:

```typescript
interface E {
  exception: Error
}
```

Now that we have two interfaces, `V<A>` and `E`, we can combine them into a single type. Specifically, this will be a _union type_, since we're taking the union of two types and smooshing them together, as so:

```typescript
type EMon<A> = V<A> | E
```

Note that `EMon` (short for "exception monadic type") also needs to take a generic parameter, because it can represent an object of type `V<A>`.

We have a union type. But we can go further by creating a _discriminated union type_. To do so, we add another field in our interface (conventionally called `kind`) that allows us to distinguish (ie. discriminate) between `V<A>` and `E` in things like `switch` statements:

```typescript
interface V<A> {
  kind: "value",
  value: A
}

interface E {
  kind: "exception",
  exception: Error
}
```

Now, instead of a clumsy `if` statement, we can use `switch` statements to match on our `EMon` type in `bind`:

```typescript
function bind<A, B>(m: EMon<A>, fn: (a: A) => EMon<B>): EMon<B> {
  switch(m.kind) { // match on the kind parameter
    case "exception":
      return m;
    case "value":
      return fn(m.value);
  }
}
```

Note that in addition to replacing `if` with `switch`, we have a bunch of type-related stuff in the function definition, because TypeScript. While it looks confusing, it's actually helpful in telling us what `bind` is supposed to take in as arguments and what `bind` is supposed to return:

- `bind<A, B>`: The generic arguments tell us that we have two different generic types, `A` and `B`, involved with `bind.`
- `m: EMon<A>`: `bind`'s first argument is of a monadic type (which may wrap a value of type `A`).
- `fn: (a: A) => EMon<B>`: `bind`'s second argument is a function that takes in a regular value (_not_ a monadic one - we don't want it to take in an `E`!) and returns a monadic value, which may be of a different type from `m`.
- `EMon<B>`: `bind`'s return value is of the monadic type. It's either `m` itself (if `m` is an `E`) or the return value of `fn(m.value)`.

**Problem 1.5.1:** Change `ret` to return a `V<A>` instead of a `Value`. Hint: Now that we're in TypeScript land, pay attention to the function definition.

''''problem
function ret<A>(x: A): EMon<A> {
  // Your code here
}
''''

**Problem 1.5.2:** Change `raise` to return a `E` instead of an `Error`. Hint: you're still allowed to use `Error` - it just can't be the return type.

''''problem
function raise<A>(x: Error): EMon<A> {
  // Your code here
}
''''

**Problem 1.5.3:** Change `tryWith` to conform to the new TypeScript types. Hint: Think how `bind`'s internal logic works, and look at `tryWith`'s types.

''''problem
function trywith<A>(m: EMon<A>, f: (e: Error) => EMon<A>): EMon<A> {
  // Your code here
}
''''

**Problem 1.5.4:** While not strictly required, a lot of monads have a `run` operation to exit the monad back into pure function land. Write `run` to take a `EMon` argument, "unwrap" it, and return the underlying value.

Hint: It's rather tricky to determine what `run` should do if the `EMon` argument is of type `E`, ie. if it is an uncaught exception. You have two options: either throw a new `Error` (which kind of defeats the purpose of the monad), or let the program crash (which is surprisingly tricky to do in JavaScript/TypeScript).

''''problem
function run<A>(m: EMon<A>): Result<A> {
  // Your code here
}
''''
