But notice that we never actually implemented a way for our program to exit early. Right now, all that `raise` is doing is sitting there and wasting oxygen. It's not actually making `tryDivide` throw our exception. Let’s fix that:

```javascript
function tryDivide(x, y) {
    if (y === 0) {
         return raise();
    } else {
         return x / y;
    }
}
```

That’s better. If you’re there thinking "hey, it’s a side effect, we shouldn’t be returning anything," you’ll be right. What we’re basically doing is faking the exception side effect by returning early.

Now that we can throw exceptions, how do we catch them? Just like default JS has try-catch clauses, we can define a function `tryWith` that does something similar. (Why the name? Again, we want to be different!) What should it do? Remember what a function does: it takes in an input and outputs something. In this case, `tryWith` ideally should take whatever another function returns and, if said return value was produced by an exception, handle it and produce its own output.

Except...`raise` doesn't return anything, so how does `tryWith` know it's dealing with an exception? For now, you figure it out. We'll look at a more sophisticated way of doing exceptions in the next lesson.

**Exercise 1.2.0:** This exercise has two parts. First, modify `raise` so that it returns a value. Next, write a function `tryWith` that takes in one argument, the result of some function. If that function returns an exception, `tryWith` should output `"Error!"`; otherwise, it should not affect the output of that function.