Before we move on to some better definitions (for our purposes), let’s spend some time on those two confusing definitions. The exact quote is actually a joke from [this humorous blog post](http://james-iry.blogspot.com/2009/05/brief-incomplete-and-mostly-wrong.html). It did start out as a serious definition that was derived from the mathematical field of category theory. But math is hard, so we’re not going to show any math for a long, long time.

Instead, we’re going to teach monads like how they’re actually used in programming languages. That’s where the second definition is actually better. Although you can’t order a monad at Chipotle, it does describe one way of looking at monads: as wrappers. Just like how a burrito wraps meat and guacamole in a tortilla shell, a monad wraps an underlying data object, like an integer or a string, into a monadic type.

(And just for fun, [here’s a cartoon of the whole “monads being burrito” thing](https://chrisdone.com/posts/monads-are-burritos/))

You may be scared by the introduction of a big word (big phrase?), but for now think of a monadic type as a type associated with a particular monad. Types will feature prominently in our lessons, which is why we’re using TypeScript in addition to regular JavaScript.

So that’s one way of thinking about monads, as things that wrap data. Monads can also be thought about as libraries of operations that work with that data. Some operations wrap data, some operations unwrap data, and some operations stuff that data into functions.
