So that’s one way of thinking about monads, as things that wrap data. Monads can also be thought about as libraries of operations that work with that data. Some operations wrap data, some operations unwrap data, and some operations stuff that data into functions.

To be precise, all monads have three basic operations:
- `ret`: An operation that takes a data object and wraps it into a monadic type.
- `bind`: An operation that takes a wrapped object and a function to get the output of that function, which is also a wrapped object.
- `run`: An operation that unwraps a wrapped object.

Yay, so we have this library that does stuff. But where can we use it? Turns out, we can use it in lots of places. In particular, monads are a way to isolate side effects in functional programming. (Don’t know what that sentence means? Go to Course 0!) With a monad, we can create a space in our program to do all of the side effects we want, from exceptions to state to I/O, and then once we’re done we can call `run` to unwrap all of our wrapped objects and go back to pure function land.

That’s why monads are often described as a design pattern: these three operations are used in so many places to isolate many different kinds of side effects, so it would make sense to point out the commonalities and put them into one place.

Ok, you’re probably still confused as to what a monad is. And you’re probably confused on where to use monads in the first place. And you’re probably hungry for burritos. Let’s start with an example of a simple but practical side effect: exceptions.