For this reason, we can distinguish *pure* from *impure* functions. A pure function like is a function that has no side effects. Remember `adder`, that function that added two numbers, returned the sum, and did nothing else? That is an example of a pure function. Meanwhile, `adderWithSideEffects` is obviously an impure function, since it outputs a console output as well as returning the sum.

Another example of an impure function would be `mapNotFunctional` from the previous lesson. That function is impure because it mutated the loop index `i` while it was doing its thing. Mutation is an example of a side effect because it’s a change in the program’s state, ie. an output (to the program) that isn't the return value. On the other hand, since `mapFunctional` doesn’t have mutation or any other side effects, it is a pure function.

Now that we have an idea of what side effects and pure/impure functions are, what are some examples of side effects?

- Mutation and state changes: We have already covered that. Basically, whenever a program mutates a pre-existing variable, it is changing the state of the program, which consists in part of the variables floating around in the program.

- I/O and printing: Whenever you’re printing a value to the command line, you never do it by having a function return it, right? Instead, you call another function, such as `print` or `console.log`, to do so. You do something similar for reading from and writing to files. Since print statements and file I/O are not return values, they are side effects.

- Exceptions: Whenever you raise an exception, you never do so as a return value. Instead, exceptions generally allow you to exit a function before you reach the return statement. As such, they also count as side effects.
