# Lesson 3.0: Fun with Counting 

So you've seen that you can make exceptions using monads. What other things you can create with monads?

Remember the Fibonacci sequence from grade school? You know, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, and so on? No?

Okay. In the Fibonacci sequence, the n-th term is the sum of the (n-1)-th and the (n-2)-th terms. For example, to calculate the 6th term, we would add the 5th and 4th terms, which are 5 and 3 respectively, to get 5 + 3 = 8. The exception is the first two terms, which are each set to 1; these are our _base cases_.

Knowing this, how do you compute the n-th Fibonacci sequence? We write a recursive function! In our `fibonacci` function, we pass `n` as the argument and add the results of `fibonacci(n-1)` and `fibonacci(n-2)` together. If `n` is either 0 or 1, ie. one of our base cases, we return 1, and we go from there.

```javascript
// Compute the n-th Fibonacci number
function fibonacci(n) {
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return 1;
  } else {
    return fibonacci(n - 1) + fibonacci(n - 2);
  }
}
```
This fits in nicely with the functional programming paradigm, what with the recursion and all. But there is a flaw: this algorithm is painfully _slow_. How slow? Imagine running `fibonacci(n)`. Then we have to make 2 more calls to `fibonacci`, then two more, then two more...it's going to be alot.

(In reality, we would want to use dynamic programming to improve it, but we're not doing that because we're trying to prove a point. Also dynamic programming is scary, so let's not get there on this website.)

To get a really good idea of how horribly slow this algorithm is, we can count the number of calls to `fibonacci()` we make. The obvious, imperative solution is to have use global mutable variable as a counter, and to update it from within the function:

```javascript
let counter = 0;

function fibonacci(n) {
  counter += 1; // Update counter!
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return 1;
  } else {
    return fibonacci(n - 1) + fibonacci(n - 2);
  }
}
```

But programming with mutation is for squares. For example, how would we prevent the counter from being updated outside the context of `fibonacci`? We want a functional programming solution, and that's where you come in.

**Problem 3.0.0:** Modify `fibonacci` in order to count the number of function calls in a functional manner. To get you started, we included an extra argument `count` to `fibonacci`, as well as the old form of the function. You will also have to change the return type of `fibonacci`.

```problem
///// CODE
function fibonacci(n, count) { // Extra argument!
  // TODO: Modify this code
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return 1;
  } else {
    return fibonacci(n - 1) + fibonacci(n - 2);
  }
}

///// SOLUTION
function fibonacci(n, count) {
  let count1 = count + 1;
  if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
    return [1, count1];
  } else {
    let [a1, count2] = fibonacci(n - 1, count1);
    let [a2, count3] = fibonacci(n - 2, count2);
    return [a1 + a2, count3];
  }
}

///// TESTS
fibonacci(0, 0) ==> [1,1]
fibonacci(1, 0) ==> [1,1]
fibonacci(2, 0) ==> [2,3]
fibonacci(3, 0) ==> [3,5]
fibonacci(4, 0) ==> [5,9]
fibonacci(5, 0) ==> [8,15]
fibonacci(20, 0) ==> [10946,21891]

///// KEYWORDS
fibonacci: !for, !while

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```