# Lesson 3.1: The Counter Monad

In the previous lesson, you probably wrote something like this:

```javascript
function fibonacci(n, c) {
    let newc = c + 1;
    if (n === 0 || n === 1) {
        return [1, newc];
    } else {
        let [a1, c1] = fibonacci(n-1, newc);
        let [a2, c2] = fibonacci(n-2, c2);
        return [a1 + a2, c2];
    }
}
```

Instead of returning just the n-th fibonacci number, we return a tuple in the form `[a, c]`. The first element of our tuple is our original return value, while the second element is the final count we made. In this case, that count is the number of calls to `fibonacci` we've made.

Notice how the we _thread_ the count through our calls to `fibonacci`. After our initial increment of the count, we first pass it to our first inner call to `fibonacci` and get the result `c1`. Then we pass `c1` to the second inner call to `fibonacci` and get the result `c2`, which we then return in the tuple as our final answer.

But suppose we don't want to pollute our beautiful functions with extra arguments and return extra crud. We want some way to abstract these side effects away, to wrap them somehow.

Hmm. Looks like it's (counter) monad time!

First, how do we make `ret`, ie. how do we wrap our value + count combo? Let's start with the simplest possible function we can make with the value and counter, the identity function:

```javascript
function identity(n, c) {
    return [n, c];
}

identity("two", 2); // Returns ["two", 2]
```

Now, let's take advantage of the fact that we can rewrite any two-argument function as two nested one-argument functions:

```javascript
function identity(n) {
    return function(c) {
        return [n, c];
    }
}

identity("two")(2); // Also returns ["two", 2]
```

In both functions, we can call the arguments in order and get back a value + count tuple. (Note: this idea of turning multiple-argument functions into a bunch of one-argument functions has a fancy-schmancy name: _currying_.)

But here's something to notice: by wrapping our computation in the inner function, we "froze" said computation. Thus, instead of immediately evaluating it, we can pass it around like any other piece of data. In that sense, we used a function to wrap our tuple! This will be our `ret` operation:

```typescript
type Mon<A> = (c: number) => [A, number]

function ret<A>(n: A): Mon<A> {
    // This function is our monadic wrapper
    return function(c) {
        return [n, c];
    }
}
```

Now that we have a way to wrap/freeze data, how do we unwrap/unfreeze it? Simple: pass in a value. Once we pass in a value to the inner function, we get back our tuple. This is the basis of the `run` operation:

```typescript
function run<A>(m: Mon<A>): A {
    return m(0);
}
```

Obviously, we need to pass in a 0, because we always count up from 0. (Because we're computer scientists. Suck it, mathematicians!)

Cool, we have our wrapped data that we can pass around. What can we do with it? For starters, we need a way to increment the counter:

```typescript
function tick<A>(m: Mon<A>): Mon<A> {
    return function(c) {
        return m(c + 1);
    }
}
```

As you can see, inside `tick`'s inner function, we take the count, increment it, and pass it into `m`, which returns the tuple. Thus from one monadic wrapper we get another one, a function that takes a count and returns a tuple.

So that's a cool idea: take a wrapping function, pass arguments, and make a new wrapping function out of it. And we saw how we can use this idea to manipulate the count. But how about manipulating the value itself? That is what the `bind` operator is for: 

```typescript
function bind<A, B>(m: A, fn: (n: A) => Mon<B>): Mon<B> {
    return function(c) {
        let [x, nc] = m(c);
        return f(x)(nc);
    }
}
```

In `bind`, we first unwrap the monad by passing in a count; we get back a value + count tuple. Then we take the function `fn` we have as an argument to `bind`, pass in our result value `x`, getting back a function of type `Mon<B>`; we then pass in our new count `nc` to get back the final tuple. Since all this is wrapped in a function, we ultimately get back something of type `Mon<B>`.

**Problem 3.1.1:** Rewrite `fibonacci` so that it uses the Counter monad.

```problem
type Mon<A> = (c: number) => [A, number]

function ret<A>(n: A): Mon<A> {
    return function(c) { return [n, c]; }
}

function bind<A, B>(m: A, fn: (n: A) => Mon<B>): Mon<B> {
    return function(c) {
        let [x, nc] = m(c);
        return f(x)(nc);
    }
}

function tick<A>(m: Mon<A>): Mon<A> {
    return function(c) { return m(c + 1); }
}

// Hint: the type signature should be suggestive of what you should do
function fibonacci(n: number): Mon<number> {
    // Your code here 
}
```