# Lesson 0.0: Intro to Functional Programming

Monads are a *functional programming* concept, so before we even touch monads we need to have a solid understanding of what the 
heck functional programming is.

First, you know what programming is, with or without the functional part, right? In particular, our tutorial will be 
using JavaScript and TypeScript throughout, so if you don’t have a good grasp of these languages, we suggest that you 
learn them. There are plenty of resources on the Internets that can teach you better than we can, so we suggest using 
Google.

You learned how to do JavaScript? Good? Let's check.

**Problem 0.0.0:** Let’s check that you have a modicum of JavaScript knowledge. Write in JavaScript a function called 
`adder` that adds two numbers together. We will be using this function in the next lesson.

Ok, let’s move on.

Functional programming is a distinct programming paradigm (basically a way to do programming). You may have heard of 
some functional programming languages like Haskell, OCaml, and Lisp. No? Ok, many of these languages are pretty obscure 
compared to the more commonly used ones (which is why we’re not using them for most of our tutorial). But they are 
relatively popular within the functional programming community, so here’s an overview of the popular families:

- Haskell: Named after the mathematician Haskell Curry, it was first released in 1990 for academia. it’s now used in 
industry, including by Facebook of all things. Haskell is a prime example of a “pure” functional programming language, 
ie. a language without any non-functional features.

- OCaml: Part of the larger ML family of languages, it first appeared in 1996. It’s best-known use is by the finance 
company Jane Street.

- Lisp: This is actually a family of languages, not a single language; its most popular members are Common Lisp, Scheme,
 and Clojure. The family first appeared in 1958. All Lisps share the fact that their syntax are dominated by parentheses 
 (like (this)).

Just for fun, here’s how you write a simple `adder` function in some functional programming languages:

OCaml:
```ocaml
let adder x y = x + y;;
```

Clojure (a Lisp):
```clojure
(defn adder [x y] (+ x y))
```

But even some of the most commonly used languages in the world, including JavaScript and Python, have functional 
programming elements. Even Java and C++ have gotten in on the game by including some functional programming.

Here’s how some functional programming features have been implemented in these four popular languages.

- Functions: Technically all of them have functions, though Java calls them “methods” and doesn’t allow them outside of 
classes.

- Immutable data: Some built-in data types are immutable by default, such as Strings in Java and tuples in Python.

- Higher order functions: In JS and Python since forever, and in C++ using `std::function`.

- Anonymous functions: In JS and Python since forever, in C++ since C++11, and in Java since Java 8.

- Partial function application: In Python using partial, in JS using the `bind` function, and C++ using `std::bind`.

Do some of these words not make sense? That’s great! We’ll be learning about these concepts in the next few lessons, 
through the medium of JavaScript.

*But wait.* Before we move on, we need to make a few modifications to JavaScript to make functional programming a bit 
easier.

- TypeScript vs. JavaScript: TypeScript is simply JavaScript with types. Where before all we had were vars and lets, now 
we have actual types like number and string. This will be important for monadic programming, since monads heavily 
incorporate types.

- Immutable.js: This is a library developed by Facebook that allows us to use immutable objects, which we explain in 
Lesson 0.2.

All of these modifications have been made by us already, so you don’t have to worry about them.
