# Lesson 0.1: The "functional" of functional programming

Functional programming is defined by two key concepts:

- Programs are built out of functions, the same kind you learned in middle-school math. You know, `f(x) = y`.

- Data structures (arrays, maps, etc.) are *immutable*, meaning that you cannot change (aka. _mutate_) their state.

In this lesson, let’s just focus on the first key point. Remember the `adder` function that you wrote in JavaScript?

```javascript
function adder(x, y) {
  return x + y;
}
```

That’s functional programming for you! You have your `adder` function, which takes two arguments as input and spits out an output, in this case the sum.

What can you do with these programs? Well, you can pass in the outputs of one program as the inputs of another.

```javascript
function adder(x, y) { return x + y; }
function mult2(z) { return z * 2; }

let sum = adder(2, 3);
let result = mult2(sum);

// Expected output: result = 10
```

In general, this process of taking the outputs of one function to be the inputs of another is known as _function composition_, and should also be familiar from middle school math. In more complex programs, you can compose an unlimited number of functions (in what’s known as a _pipeline_) and do some crazy stuff with that.

You know what’s also crazy? Taking in functions as arguments.

What? Functions as arguments of other functions?

Yes.

Turns out that in JavaScript, Python, and other functional programming languages, functions are _first class_ data types, just like integers and characters. Functions that take in other functions as arguments are known as _higher order functions_. Here’s a common example from JavaScript: the `map` function:
  
```javascript
let arr1 = [1, 2, 3];
let arr2 = l1.map(mult2);

// Expected output: [2; 4; 6]
```

You pass into map a one-argument function like `mult2` and that function is applied to every element in the array. The map function then outputs a new array as its results.

What if you don’t want to write out an entire function like `mult2` just to use it as an argument? That’s okay - you can write what’s known as an *anonymous function* (sometimes called a *lambda function*), where you can write a function with a body and arguments without having to name it. Here’s a rewrite of the above using anonymous function syntax in JS: 

```javascript
let arr1 = [1, 2, 3];
let arr2 = l1.map(z => z * 2);

// Expected output: [2; 4; 6]
```

Notice how instead of passing in the function name `mult2`, you write the function itself as an argument using JS’s arrow notation. The argument here is written to the left of the arrow; the stuff to the right of the arrow is the body of the function.

Here’s another thing you can do in functional programming: _partial application_. That is, you can pre-apply arguments to a function and get back another function, like so:
  
```javascript
let add3 = adder.bind(null, 3);
let arr3 = l1.map(add3);

// Expected output: [3; 4; 5]
```

Here, we apply the argument 3 to our adder function and get back a new, one-argument function `add3`. This is just an adder function that has one parameter instead of two. Now we just give one parameter to add3, and it will do what it tells us it will do: it will add 3 to whatever number it is given. We can then use `add3` as a higher order function in JS’s map function. (Don't worry about `null`. The first argument to bind passes in the `this`. The function doesn't care about `this` so we can just give it `null`.).
  
**Problem 0.1.0:** Create a function `mult3` using JS’s `bind` functionality, and then use it with `map`.

```problem
///// CODE
function mult(x, y) {
  return x * y;
}

function mapped(arr1) {
  // TODO: Your code here 
}

///// SOLUTION
function mult(x, y) {
  return x * y;
}

function mapped(arr1) {
  let mult3 = mult.bind(null, 3);
  let arr3 = arr1.map(mult3);
  return arr3;
}

///// TESTS
mapped([-1, -2, -3]); ==> [-3,-6,-9]
mapped([0, 4, 16]); ==> [0,12,48]
mapped([10, 2, 5]); ==> [30,6,15]

///// KEYWORDS
mult

///// LANGUAGE
JavaScript
```