# Lesson 0.3: Fun with immutability

Suppose we want to create a pure functional implementation of the `map` function. First, let's show how *not* to do it. Take a look at this non-functional implementation of the map function:

```javascript
// Okay, it takes in a function as an arg so it’s a higher order function.
// But it requires mutation so it’s not purely functional.

function mapNotFunctional(array, func) {
    for (int i = 0; i < array.length; i++) {
        let value = array[i];
	array[i] = func(value);
    }
}
```

Immutability has an odd result of making iteration as we know it, such as for and while loops, impossible. In this for loop, we need to mutate our index `i` (in this case by incrementing it). If we don’t mutate it, `i` will be stuck at the same value and your loop will run forever.

It’s even worse with while loops, since while loops check whether some value has met a certain condition; if you can’t change that value, the while loop will either run forever (since it never meets that condition) or not run at all (since it has met that condition at the start of the loop).

Not to mention, in `mapNotFunctional`, we’ve mutated array on the line `array[i] = fn(value)`, so our function is doubly not-functional.

In functional programming languages, you have to use recursion in order to perform iteration. Recursion is when you call a function from within itself. Here is an implementation of `map` that uses recursion instead of iteration:

```javascript
function mapFunctional(array, func) {
  if (array.length === 0) {
    return [];
  } else {
    let last = array[array.length - 1];
    let rest = array.slice(0, array.length - 1);

    let newLast = func(last);
    let newRest = mapFunctional(rest, func);

    // Weird JS syntax; simply means we add newLast to the array newRest
    return [...newRest, newLast];
  }
}
```

In `mapFunctional`, we take our array and, if it's not empty, split it into two parts: the last element of the array, and everything that comes before it. Then we apply our function `func` to `last` to get our new last value. Then from inside `mapFunctional` we call `mapFunctional` again, this time passing in `rest` instead of the entire array. Finally, we put our new values `newRest` and `newLast` together into a single array, with `newLast` at the end of our new array, and return it.

In the case that `array` _is_ empty, we simply return an empty array. That way we can build bigger and bigger arrays by successively pushing entries to the end of the arrays.

If we call `mapFunctional` on a five-element list, for instance, we will call `mapFunctional` four more times, until we reach the bottom, when we are passing in an empty array. Once we there, we return an empty array, then push a `newLast` value to create a one-element array. We do this four more times, until we are left with a new five-element array. 

You may be wondering why we not using `pop` and `push`, and are instead using things like `slice` and that weird `...` syntax. The reason is that `pop` and `push` _mutate_ the arrays they operate on. In other words, when you call `pop(arr1)`, `arr1` itself changes, which is not what we want. With the syntax we are using, we avoid mutating whatever arrays they operate on.

**Problem 0.3.0:** You may have heard of “map-reduce,” and we’ve covered the map part of that. Now we do the reduce part, or at least a variant of reduction called a _fold_.

Write a function `foldFunctional` that takes in three arguments:

- An array
- A function
- Some initial value

Your `foldFunctional` will run over each of the entries of the array. On each entry, `foldFunctional` will perform the computation `function(arrayValue, initValue)`, and will return a new value.

For example, suppose `adder` is your function, `init` is initially set to 0, and your array is `[1, 2, 3]`. Then `foldFunctional` will run `adder(3, 0)`, which returns `3` (obviously). Then it will run `adder(2, 3)`, which returns `5`, and then it will run `adder(1, 5)`, which returns `6`.

Side note: This is called a _right_ fold, since we are going from right to left as go through the array entries. There is also a _left_ fold that goes in the opposite direction; however, given how JavaScript arrays work, it will be easier to implement the right fold.

You should not mutate the value of any `init`; you can only declare new variables. Furthermore, you should not mutate the array. Furthermore, you cannot use for or while loops; use recursion only.

```problem
function adder(x, y) { return x + y; }
function subtract(x, y) { return x - y; } // New function!

function foldFunctional(array, func, init) {
  // your code here
  // solution added for development purposes
  if (array.length === 0) {
    return init;
  } else {
    let last = array[array.length - 1];
    let rest = array.slice(0, array.length - 1);

    let newInit = func(last, init);
    return foldFunctional(rest, func, newInit);
  }
}

// TESTS
foldFunctional([1, 2, 3], adder, 0); ==> 6
foldFunctional([-1, -2, -3], adder, 0); ==> -6
foldFunctional([0, 2, 4], adder, -5); ==> 1
foldFunctional(["Foo", "Bar", "Qux"], adder, ""); ==> FooBarQux
foldFunctional([2, 5, 7], subtract, 0); ==> 4
```

**Problem 0.3.1:** Create a function `findFunctional` that returns the first entry it finds in an array (looking from right to left) that satisfies a _predicate_. A predicate is a function that takes in a single argument and returns `true` or `false`.

For example, if our predicate is `greaterThan2` and our array is `[8, 4, 0]`, `findFunctional` will return `4` since it's the first thing it finds that satisfies the predicate. This is despite the fact that `8` also satisfies the predicate, as `8` comes in later in the array.

If such an entry can't be found in the array, return `undefined`.

As before, don't use for or while loops, and try not to mutate anything.

```problem
function greaterThan2(x) {
  if (x > 2) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}

function findFunctional(array, pred) {
  // Your code here
  // Answer added for documentation
  if (array.length === 0) {
    return undefined;
  } else {
    let last = array[array.length - 1];
    let rest = array.slice(0, array.length - 1);

    if (pred(last)) {
      return last;
    } else {
      return findFunctional(rest, pred);
    }
  }
}
// TESTS
findFunctional([1, 2], greaterThan2); ==> undefined
findFunctional([1, 2, 3], greaterThan2); ==> 3
findFunctional([3, 6, 10], greaterThan2); ==> 10
findFunctional([-1, 3, 0, 5], greaterThan2); ==> 5
findFunctional(["Foo", "Bar"], x => { return x === "Foo"; }); ==> Foo
``` 

**Problem 0.3.2:** Create a function `filterFunctional` that works on a similar principle to `findFunctional`, but instead of returning the first value that satisfies the predicate, it returns an array of _every_ entry satisfying the predicate.

For instance, if `greaterThan2` is your predicate and `[1, 3, 2, 5, 7]` is your `List`, then `filterFunctional` should return `[3, 5, 7]`.

Once again, try not to mutate anything, and don't use for or while loops.

```problem
function greaterThan2(x) {
    if(x > 2) {
      return true;
    }
  	return false;
}

function filterFunctional(array, pred) {
  // Your code here
  // Answer added for documentation
  if (array.length === 0) {
    return [];
  } else {
    let last = array[array.length - 1];
    let rest = array.slice(0, array.length - 1);

    if (pred(last)) {
      return [...filterFunctional(rest, pred), last];
    } else {
      return filterFunctional(rest, pred);
    }
  }
}

// TESTS
filterFunctional([1, 2], greaterThan2); ==> []
filterFunctional([1, 2, 3], greaterThan2); ==> [3]
filterFunctional([3, 6, 10], greaterThan2); ==> [3, 6, 10]
filterFunctional([-1, 3, 0, 5], greaterThan2); ==> [3, 5]
```