# Lesson 0.4: Side Effects

Mutations are an example of *side effects*. What are side effects? They're whatever a function outputs that's not its return value. For example:

```javascript
function adderWithSideEffects(x, y) {
     let sum = x + y;
     console.log(sum);
     return sum;
}
```

The return value is `sum`, while printing `sum` to the console is a side effect.

For this reason, we can distinguish *pure* from *impure* functions. A pure function like is a function that has no side effects. Remember `adder`, that function that added two numbers, returned the sum, and did nothing else? That is an example of a pure function. Meanwhile, `adderWithSideEffects` is obviously an impure function, since it outputs a console output as well as returning the sum.

Another example of an impure function would be `mapNotFunctional` from the previous lesson. That function is impure because it mutated the loop index `i` while it was doing its thing. Mutation is an example of a side effect because it’s a change in the program’s state, ie. an output (to the program) that isn't the return value. On the other hand, since `mapFunctional` doesn’t have mutation or any other side effects, it is a pure function.

Now that we have an idea of what side effects and pure/impure functions are, what are some examples of side effects?

- Mutation and state changes: We have already covered that. Basically, whenever a program mutates a pre-existing variable, it is changing the state of the program, which consists in part of the variables floating around in the program.

- I/O and printing: Whenever you’re printing a value to the command line, you never do it by having a function return it, right? Instead, you call another function, such as `print` or `console.log`, to do so. You do something similar for reading from and writing to files. Since print statements and file I/O are not return values, they are side effects.

- Exceptions: Whenever you raise an exception, you never do so as a return value. Instead, exceptions generally allow you to exit a function before you reach the return statement. As such, they also count as side effects.

Pure functions are awesome. Despite the limitations of not having side effects like mutation or printing, you can still do crazy things with pure functions, such as creating new (immutable) objects like there’s no tomorrow or calculating the trillionth digit of pi. At the same time, you often want to avoid side effects, since they can do stuff like mutate variables or interrupt program flow.

And sometimes, like when you’re programming in Haskell, you can’t have side effects because your whole damn language is pure functional.

Still, sometimes you want impure functions, like if you're printing to the console or command line. Pure functions aren't always better than impure ones. As with anything in software engineering, there are decisions to be made. Sometimes an impure function should be chosen over a pure one, or vice versa.

So how do you get the best of both worlds? That is where monads come in.

<!--TODO: Hanna Montana graphic from the early 2000's-->

Monads allow you to have a space in your program where you can do all the side effects you want, and then come back to pure functional land once you’re done messing around with them. In other words, they allow you to encapsulate your side effects. In fact, the way Haskell does I/O is through a monad!

Motivated enough? We hope so, so why not jump right into Monadland?
